


I tutored in a /ulocal kumon knockoff/u when I was twenty two. 

I was helping this one guy, Johnny, with grade 10 math one day and he 
left a lasting impression on me. He asked...

"Why do we need this for? Why do we need to learn this"

... something I had asked myself and was continuously asking as a 
4th year university student (and something I regularaly ask today but that's for another day)

I had /upreloaded/u my answer to this question just in case I would be prompted and so I 
shot off a quick response

"It's because graphs are really powerful!! you can actually model a bunch of different real-life things
with graphs" I look over, his eyes on mine

"for example, you can plot "effort" on the x axis, and on the y axis you can plot "results" and you can
have a x^2 function to model the fact if you put more effort into something, the more results you get!!"

I completely lost him at this point, and for good reason. This is an answer tailored to me,
not to him. If I could go back, here is what I would say

"Listen, you're not going to need this. Are you going to need to know what the mitochondria does? do you 
need to know the words to flanders fields?? Do you even need to know the rules of volleyball or basketball?? When are 
you going to use that you're not going to the NBA. 

NONE of the things that we directly learn in higschool is going to matter in your life I'm sure you know it by now 
which is why you're asking the question. 


and then the next part is a stretch goal/ things i woulds say in the shower 
"but the funny thing is at the same time some of these things will bleed over. Maybe into next year math which will bleed over into next year math which wil... "
"but at some point you might learn that learning is ALWAYS valuable, and how you decide your feelings on learning new things 
will start to dictate your trajectory in life.
"it's like you're asking me why you need to do a barbell bench and why you need to learn how to do it. You actually don't need to 
and if your goal isn't to become stronger, then stop doing it. If your goal is not to become "smarter" , then stop taking math.

"if you don't want to do a barbell bench because you don't see yourself getting bigger so you stop after a rep what am I supposed 
to say to that. In adolesence doing what you are told from an authority is actually good sometiomes" "( a lot of times its bad)"

"it's tragic because this time of "meta" thinking is actually a breed of curiosity that flourishes in mathmatics/logic. 
WHY does something happen ->WHY does my graph look like this...  the last part is asking what does it mean??? and you 
essentially have the learning feedback loop of success."


It's funny in the corporate world it's stressed that knowing the overall picture is important for growth/learning/investment,
there are regularaly all hands with hundreds/thousands of people to keep everyone unified in a goal, and why the thing they are 
learning and doing is important to fit with that goal. Do we not give highschoolers the same benefit ?

